# Monday April 18, 2022

Downloaded [[Obsidian]] to beging tracking my [[The Odin Project]] progress and overall learning experience.

## Background
Currently still in the Foundations section and learning about [[Javascript]]

## Learn
### For Loop
Created a basic FizzBuzz program using a basic Javascript **[[for]] loop**. 

```javascript
for (let i = 1; i<=answer; i++) {

	if (i % 3 === 0 && i % 5 === 0){

		console.log("FizzBuzz");

	} else if (i % 3 === 0) {

		console.log("Fizz");

	} else if (i % 5 === 0) {

		console.log("Buzz");

	}

	else {

		console.log(i);

	}

}
```

Returns **Fizz** for numbers divisible by 3, **Buzz** for items divisible by 5, and **FizzBuzz** for items divisible by both 3 and 5.



### Thinking Like a Programmer Article
#### Steps on [[Problem Solving]]
1. **Understand**
	1. Know your problem. Write down your problem, doodle a diagram, or tell someone else about it
2. **Plan**
	1. Write down your exact steps.
	2. Answer the question, “Given input X, what are the steps necessary to return output Y?”
3. **Divide**
	1. Do not try and solve one big problem, break it down in to sub-problems
	2. Solve each one by one and then connect them.
4. **Stuck**?
	1. **Debug**: Go step by step through your solution trying to find where you went wrong.
	2. **Reassess**: Take a step back. Look at the problem from another perspective. Is there anything that can be abstracted to a more general approach?
		1. Another way of reassessing is starting anew. Delete everything and begin again with fresh eyes.
	3. **Research**: Google/Stack Overflow for an answer.  Do not look for a solution to your big problem, only your sub-problem.  You need to  struggle to learn and grow into a better programmer. Don't waste time and just find solutions without learning. 
5. **Practice** - Micro Problem-Solving
	1. Chess, Coding Challanges (Coderbyte), Video Games, Sudoku, Math problems.



### [[Pseudocode]]
*Pseudocode* is basically just writing down the logic of your solution to a specific coding challenge using plain English.


### Thinking Like a Programmer Video - Andy Harris
- It doesn't matter what languare you start with.  Yes, each have their own strengths but the overall learning processes are similar.
- Programming is **NOT**:
	- Memorizing. You don't need to know it all, but you do need to know how things are possible and know where to find/recall these resources.
	- Math oriented.  Some math is required, but it is mainly **logic**.  That is why math is a perk, as it is also logic based.
	- Complex.  Programming is actually more simple than actual spoken languages.
- Programing is simply problem-solving. Telling the computer what to do.


#### 8 Main Coding Concepts
1. Variable
	1. Name / Type / Initial Value
	2. `name = initVal`
2. **Output
	1. Message
	2. `print ("Message")`
3. **Input
	1. Message - Question being asked fo the User.
	2. Variable -Answer from User is Stored
	3. `variable = input("message"`
4. **[[Loops]]
	1. For Loop
	2. [[While Loop]]
5. Debug
	1. What happened?
	2. Identify Problem
	3. Research Solution
	4. Implement


Pseudocode your algorithm first
Convert to comments
Code one line (sub-problem) at a time.
